# JavaScript Syntax Highlighter implemented in Elixir

## About

This Elixir project implements functionality for converting JavaScript code into HTML with syntax highlighting. 

The code inside ```lib/js_parallel.ex``` defines several functions, each serving a specific purpose within this conversion process:

1. **`toHTML/1` Function**:
   This function takes a filename as an argument, reads the content of the JavaScript file, and processes its content to create an HTML representation with syntax highlighting. It uses pattern matching on tokens generated by a lexer to identify different parts of the code (identifiers, reserved words, numbers, operators, strings, comments), and wraps them in HTML spans with appropriate styling.

2. **Folder Conversion Functions (`folder1/0`, `folder2/0`, `folder3/0`)**:
   These functions iterate through JavaScript files located in specific subdirectories of `jsFiles/`, convert each file's content to HTML using the `toHTML/1` function, and write the HTML content to corresponding files in the `jsTOhtml_para/` subdirectories. These functions are designed to operate on different subdirectories (`js/`, `moreJS/`, `zzJS/`).

3. **`paralelo/0` Function**:
   This function performs the conversion process in parallel by asynchronously executing the `folder1/0`, `folder2/0`, and `folder3/0` functions using Elixir's `Task.async/1` and `Task.await/1` functions. It merges the results of the parallel tasks using `:lists.merge/1`. This approach is aimed at improving efficiency by utilizing multiple cores for parallel execution.

4. **`iterative/0` Function**:
   This function iteratively processes JavaScript files located in various subdirectories under `jsFiles/`, converting them to HTML using the `toHTML/1` function. The HTML content is then written to corresponding files in the `jsTOhtml_iter/` subdirectory. Unlike the parallel approach, this function processes files sequentially.

5. **`benchmark/0` Function**:
   This function uses the `Benchee.run/1` function from the `benchee` library to benchmark and compare the execution times of the `iterative/0` and `paralelo/0` functions. It provides insights into the performance benefits of the parallel execution approach compared to the iterative one.

Inside the ```src/lexer.xrl``` file, you can find all the Regex rules implemented to detect each token.

Overall, this project provides a way to convert JavaScript code into HTML with syntax highlighting and offers both a parallel and an iterative approach for performing the conversion. It also includes a benchmarking function to measure the execution times of the two approaches.

## How to run

To run this project, yo first have to install Erlang and Elixir in your system. Check out the official documentation where it clearly explains how to do this: https://elixir-lang.org/install.html

#### 1. Install dependencies
Inside the project directory, you need to install the dependecies of the project running this command:
``` 
mix deps.get
```

#### 2. Compile it
Compile the project running this command:
```
mix compile
```

#### 3. Run the project
- You can either run the iterative version:
```
mix run -e "JsParallel.iterative"
```
- Run the parallel version:
```
mix run -e "JsParallel.paralelo"
```
- Or run both and benchmark their results:
```
mix run -e "JsParallel.benchmark"
```